.\" $Id: ysm.1,v 1.8 2007/01/29 19:18:07 rad2k Exp $
.TH Ysm 1 "Version 2.9.1" "Ysm" "Ysm manual"
.Dd July 12, 2003
.Dt YSM 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm (Y)OU (S)ICK (M)E
.br
An Original Multi-Platform ICQ console client that requires no external libraries.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ysm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm You Sick ME
is a portable open source console ICQ client written in the C language, under the GPL license.
.br
YSM is one of the new generation clients due to the sudden modifications the ICQ protocol suffered after Mirabilis joined the dark-side of the force (AOL). This is the reason why most ICQ clients ended up with malfunctions or unable to use the IM network at all.
.Pp
YSM was (proudly) the first ICQ clone to download and upload server-side contact lists.
.Pp 
The idea behind ysm is to have a portable-quickcompiling console client which lacks of strict library dependencies. The environment around ysm is ment to be fun and comfortable. 
.Sh NOTICE
For more information on ysm and its usage please refer to the documentation
section in ysm's website.
.Pp
.Nm [http://ysmv7.sourceforge.net]
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -item
.It
.Sh [Client commands]
.Ss quit
Close the ysm client.
.Ss help <command>
Query for help on a command
.Ss info
Show information about your ysm client and session.
.Ss clear
Clear the screen.
.Ss readafk
Read the messages stored while you were on afk mode!
.Ss uptime
Check the amount of days, hours, minutes and seconds since you started YSM.
.Ss backdoor
Hehe just a joke :).
.Ss afk
Type 'afk' to switch ON or OFF the Away from Keyboard mode. Excellent, huh?
.br
Type 'afk here_a_message' to set the afk message in runtime.
.Ss last
Show the last received message.
.Ss minimize
Minimize YSM's console window [win32 only]
.Ss tabkey
Special Key. Nick auto-complete. Reply/Resend a message to a slave.
.br
Press <TAB> after you send a message.
.br
Press <TAB> after you receive a message.
.Ss hotkyes
Hotkeys provide you with quick command keys. Press any of the following keys at the start of line:
.br
 '1' - help command.
.br
 '2' - whos' online (wo)
.br
 '3' - list all slaves (w)
.br
 '4' - enable/disable AFK (afk)
.br
 '5' - read afk messages (readafk)
.br
 '6' - current file transfers (fstatus)
.Ss burl
Launch a browser for a specified URL.\nThe browser is configured inside the cfg file.
.Ss run
Run a command in your current shell.
.br
usage : '! ls -al'
.Ss forward [name]
Forward your incoming messages to a specified slave or icq#.
.Ss reconnect
Reconnect to the ICQ Network.
.It
.Sh [Slaves/Users commands]
.Ss slaves
You may check on your Slave list anytime by using this command. The slaves are organized in <slave_name> <status> <flags>. Flags are modified by the 'ignore', 'visible' and 'invisible' commands. Slaves in ignore are only shown in the 'wa' command.
.Ss slaveson
Check your Slaves list just for the online ones.\n(more help on the 'slaves or w' commands.
.Ss slavesall
You may check on your Slave list anytime by using this command. The slaves are organized in <slave_name> <status> <flags>. Flags are modified by the 'ignore', 'visible' and 'invisible' commands.
.Ss addslave <name> <uin>
Add a slave to your list
.Ss delslave <name>
Delete a slave from list.
.Ss hist <name>
Read a slave's log file (message HISTORY).
.Ss msg <name> [message]
Send a message to a slave or icq.
.Ss mplain <uin1>,<uin2>,.. [message]
Send a textplain message to a slave or icq. (Ignoring any encryption settings).
.Ss chat
Turn ysm into CHAT mode. Just specify the slaves to chat with.
.br
 usage: 'chat <slave1>,<slave2>,..
.br
 usage: 'ch <slave1>,<slave2>,..'
.Ss lastsent [message]
Send a message to the last slave you messaged.
.br
(Also check the <tab> key function)
.br
usage: 'a [message]'
.Ss reply
Send a message to the last slave who messaged you.
.br
(Also check the <tab> key function)
.br
usage: 'r [message]'
.Ss whois <name>
Request information on a slave or icq#
.Ss search example@email.com
Search icq users by their e-mail.
.Ss save [name]
Upload your slaves to the ICQ servers.
.Ss req [name]
Send an Authorization Request to a slave or icq #.
.Ss auth
Send an authorization OK reply to a slave or icq.
.br 
 usage: 'auth <name>
.br 
 usage: 'auth <uin>'
.Ss rename <old_name> <new_name>
Rename a slave.
.Ss ignore <name>
Add/Remove a slave to/from your ignore list.
.Ss visible <name>
Add/Remove a slave to/from your visible list.
.Ss invisible <name>
Add/Remove a slave to/from your invisible list.
.Ss alert <name>
Add/Remove a slave to/from your alert list.
.Ss key
Set an encryption key to use between two YSM clients.
.br
Keys are used to send encrypted messages and encrypted file transfers.
.br
The keys are specified in hexadecimal and they must be max 32 bytes [32 * 2 hex]
.br
In example: 'key rad2k 616161616161616161' sets a 9 bytes long key with rad2k.
.br
You should then tell the slave to set the same key with you.
.br
If used with no arguments, the slave's key will be cleared.
.br
If used with a '?' a 32 bytes random key will be generated, set,  and shown in the screen.
.br
In example: 'key rad2k ?'.
.Ss seen <name>
Display signon, last status change and\nlast message received time of a specified slave.
.Ss contacts <dest_slave> <slave1> [slave2] [slave3] ..
Send contacts to a slave or icq #.
.Ss url <dest_slave> <url> [description]
Send a url to a slave or icq #.
.Ss opendc <slave>
Open a DC session to a slave.
.Ss closedc <slave>
Close a DC session to a slave.
.Ss faccept <dest_slave>
Accept a file transfer request from a slave.
.Ss fdecline <dest_slave> [reason]
Decline a file transfer request from a slave.
.Ss send <dest_slave> <filepath> <reason>
Send a file to a slave.
.Ss fstatus
Show the status of active transfers.
.Ss fcancel <slave>
Cancel an ongoing transfer to/from a slave.
.It
.Sh [Account commands]
.Ss info
Show information about your ysm client and session.
.Ss status [new_status]
Change/Check your current status.
.Ss nick [new_nick]
Check/Change your icq nickname.
.Ss email [new@address]
Check/Change your e-mail!.
.Ss password <new_pasword>
Change your ICQ password.
.Ss logall [on|off]
Check/Configure global/specific Logging.
.Ss beep [on|off]
Turn on/off message beeping!
.Ss sounds [on|off]
Turn on/off wave sounds globally.
.Ss loadconfig
Reload configuration file settings.
.br
 usage: 'loadconfig'
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width $HOME/.ysm/ysm-cfg -compact
.Pa $HOME/.ysm/ysm-cfg
Configuration file.
.Pp
.Pa $HOME/.ysm/afk-log
[created by the afk-mode] 
.Pp
.Pa $HOME/.ysm/uin#
[each UIN is a log file generated by 'log'] 
.El
.Sh BUGS
If you come across bugs, report them to : rad2k@mail\&.ru
.Sh AUTHORS
rad2k <rad2k@mail\&.ru> - author and maintainer of YSM ICQ.
.Pp
tx - wrote manpage(where are you?).
.Pp
Franjo Stipanovic <fr1c@aris\&.ffk\&.hr> - manpage maintainer.
.Pp
Other developers as well as people who helped can be found at 
http://ysmv7.sourceforge.net
